Doc 1688 tutorial cluster profiles (#7054)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/tutorials/cluster-management/update-maintain/cluster-profile-variables.md

Profile versions are commonly used to add or remove layers, specific pack configurations, and templating clusters through the use of profile variables. When we leverage Cluster
Profile Variables they are applied to a specific profile version and tied to whichever version of the profile the variable is
used in.

In this tutorial, you will learn how to leverage cluster profile variables directly in Palette or via Terraform
for cluster deployments. You will also learn how to leverage them as part of an initial cluster deployment and integrate them into existing cluster deployments.

## Prerequisites

- Spectro Cloud Account
- git
- Cloud credentials (AWS, Azure or Google Cloud)
- terminal
- Terraform (setup and configured)
- Palette API key

> ## Create Profile with Variables (Palette)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create Profile with Variables (UI Workflow)
```

Before we build any clusters, we will start with a basic cluster profile creation. The cluster profile can be viewed as a
template from which we can build clusters. When we add cluster profile variables, this allows us to create
clusters that are unique and can be customized for various use cases.

In Palette, navigate to Profiles and select **Add Cluster Profile**. The version number of a given profile must be unique
and use the semantic versioning format major.minor.patch. If you do not specify a version for your cluster profile, it

> will default to **1.0.0.**. Start your profile with the following packs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will default to **1.0.0.**. Configure your profile with the following packs.
```

    | Pack | Version |
    | ----------------- | --------- |
    | Ubuntu | 22.x |
    | Palette eXtended Kubernetes | 1.30.x |
    | Calico | 3.29.2 |
    | Amazon EBS CSI | 1.41.x |
    | Wordpress Chart | 6.4.3 |

> Now that you have a newly created Profile you can add variables to be used. You should create your variables first and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add cluster profile variables to your cluster profile. You should create your variables first and
```

> then add them to the YAML file through the editor after. Variables go across the whole profile. Creating unique variable

Reviewer: What does this mean? 
> Variables go across the whole profile.

Author: Means I need to reword. ;) Essentially, when a variable is created it can be applied in any profile version at any time (except when the profile version is in use)

> names for specific packs can help ensure that re-used placeholders can be uniquely specified. For example, namespace is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
names for specific packs can help ensure that reused placeholders can be uniquely specified. For example, `namespace` is
```

a common variable to use across multiple packs.

> Start by going to your profile and select **{} Variables**. Here you can click **{} Create variable**.

Reviewer: Where am I going and what am I clicking? The cluster profile editor?

> On the Create variable page, fill in the following information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the **Create variable** page, fill in the following information.
```

| Variable Setting | Value                                        |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| Variable | namespace (this is case-sensitive and should use lower-case and underscores) | 
| Display |  Wordpress: Namespace |
| Description | Enter a new namespace for the Wordpress Pack |
| Format | Select String from the drop-down |
| Default | set to enable and in the box enter "namespace" (the Wordpress pack normally uses wordpress for the
  namespace)  | 

> Once your variable options have been set, click Create.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Create** to save your cluster profile variable options.
```

![Image that shows how to copy and paste variable, then save it in the YAML file](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-variables/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-variables-create-variable.webp) 

> With the variable created we can now add it to the profile. Click the Copy to Clipboard icon and close the Profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now add the created cluster profile variable it to the cluster profile. Click the **Copy to Clipboard** icon and close the Profile
```

variable tab.

![Image that shows how to copy and paste variable, then save it in the YAML file](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-variables/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-variables-variable-clipboard.webp)

> We are going to add the variable to the pack manifest YAML file. To access this click on the wordpress-chart 6.4.3 to

Reviewer: Why are we adding the cluster profile variable to the manifest? Also, no "we".

> We are going to add the variable to the pack manifest YAML file. To access this click on the wordpress-chart 6.4.3 to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are going to add the variable to the pack manifest YAML file. To access this click on the `wordpress-chart 6.4.3` to
```

| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| namespace: wordpress | `'{{.spectro.var.wordpress_namespace}}'` |
| ports: http: 80      | `'{{.spectro.var.wordpress_port}}'`      |
| replicaCount: 1      | `'{{.spectro.var.wordpress_replica}}'`   |

### Deploy Clusters with Cluster Profile Variables

Your cluster profile now has two versions, one without variables and one with. We can either deploy two separate
clusters (one for each version), or we can deploy one cluster using version 1.0.0 and then upgrade it to version 1.1.0.
This tutorial demonstrates the latter option.

In Palette, select your profile and use the **drop-down Menu** is set to version 1.0.0 . Click Deploy and go through the
wizard to deploy the cluster, leaving all options to their default. The cluster will take a few minutes to build.

Under **Workloads**, select **Deployments** and filter for **wordpress**. There should be three pods displayed.

Go to **Profile** and from the **drop-down Menu** select cluster profile version **1.1.0**. Choose **Review & Save**. On
the **Changes Summary**, select **Review changes in Editor**.

> Select **{} Profile variables changes** and open the Running/New configuration. Enter in new values for each variable:

Author: Rewording and updating image.

Select to **Workloads** tab. Then, select **Pods**. Refresh the screen using the circular arrows and then filter for
**wordpress** namespace. There should be three pods displayed in the Wordpress namespace.

![Image that shows new replicas in new namespace for Wordpress](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-variables/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-variables-validate-replica.webp)

### Cleanup

Use the following steps to clean up the resources you created for the tutorial.

Navigate to the left main menu and select **Clusters**. Select the cluster you created in this tutorial.

Select **Settings** to expand the menu, and select **Delete Cluster**.

A dialog appears. Input the cluster name to confirm the delete action.

The deletion process takes several minutes to complete.

Once the cluster is deleted, navigate to the left main menu and select **Profiles**.

Select the cluster profile you created in this tutorial. Select the three-dot menu to display the **Delete** button.

Select **Delete** and confirm the selection to remove the cluster profile. Make sure you delete both versions of this
profile.

## Create Profile with Variables (Terraform Workflow)

> When you create cluster profiles in Terraform, you will do it as part of the cluster creation rather than as a separate

Author: I'll reword.

process. If you need to have more than one profile version, the variables must appear in all versions.

You do not have to have the variables assigned to the pack. You can use different pack manifest files within the
different cluster profile versions.

> To start you can clone the [Tutorials](https://github.com/spectrocloud/tutorials) repository locally or follow along by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Clone the [Tutorials](https://github.com/spectrocloud/tutorials) repository locally or follow along by
```

downloading a container image that includes the tutorial code and all dependencies. Once you have the Terraform tutorial

> repository in place, navigate to the folder that contains the cluster profile variable tutorial code.

Reviewer: Please provide exact steps for this.

```shell
cd terraform/cluster-profile-variables-tf
```

> When creating cluster profile variables in Terraform, they are added to the cluster profile section. They will get added

Reviewer: > When creating cluster profile variables in Terraform, they are added to the cluster profile section.
What does this mean? In the file?

when you create the cluster itself.

> You will start with the **cluster_profiles.tf** file. You can review variables that were placed at the end of the **AWS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open **cluster_profiles.tf** file. You can review variables that were placed at the end of the **AWS
```

cluster. The host cluster will use version `1.0.0` of the cluster profile.

```shell
Plan: 3 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
```

To deploy the resources, use the `apply` command.

```shell
terraform apply -auto-approve
```

To check that the cluster profile was created correctly, log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com), and
click **Profiles** from the left **Main Menu**. Locate the cluster profile named `aws-profile-variables-tf`. Click on
the cluster profile to review its layers and versions.

### Validation

You can validate that the profile variables have been applied. Go to Palette and go to your cluster **Overview** page.
Click on the 9090 port to launch the default Wordpress application.

![Image that shows new port available for Wordpress](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-variables/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-variables-validate-overview.webp)

Go to **Workloads** and select **Namespaces**. Refresh the page

![Image that shows new namespace available for Wordpress](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-variables/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-variables-validate-namespace.webp)

> Go to **Workloads** and select **Pods**. Refresh the screen using the circular arrows and then filter for **wordpress**

Reviewer: I'm already in Workloads.

section for further information.

In this tutorial, you will learn how to apply cluster profile variables directly in Palette. Alternatively, you can
choose to follow along with the tutorial using Terraform.

## Prerequisites

- A Palette account.
- Tenant admin access to Palette for the purpose of creating cluster profiles and clusters
- An Amazon Web Services (AWS) account added to your Palette project settings. Refer to the
  [Add an AWS Account to Palette](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/clusters/public-cloud/aws/add-aws-accounts) guide for
  instructions.
- An SSH key available in the region where you plan to deploy the cluster.
- Basic knowledge of containers and Kubernetes manifest file attributes. Refer to the
  [Docker Get Started](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/) guide and the
  [Learn Kubernetes Basics](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/) tutorial to start learning.
- Terraform (setup and configured)

## Create Profile with Variables (UI Workflow)

Log into Palette. Navigate to **Profiles** and select **Add Cluster Profile**. The version number of a given profile

> must be unique and use the semantic versioning format major.minor.patch. If you do not specify a version for your

Author: Creating a new profile first (which starts off with 1.0.0) and then adding a new version. Mantra of always having a "clean" option to revert back to.

Once you have created your new version add the following variables and their default values. After each variable ensure
you click **Create**.

#### Variable: wordpress_replica

| Variable Setting | Value                                        |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| Variable         | wordpress_replica                            |
| Display name     | Wordpress: Replica Count                     |
| Description      | The number of replicas for the Wordpress app |
| Format           | Number                                       |
| Default          | 1                                            |

#### Variable: wordpress_port

| Variable Setting | Value                              |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| variable         | wordpress_port                     |
| Display name     | Wordpress: New HTTP Wordpress port |
| Description      | Set a new port for Wordpress HTTP  |
| Format           | Number                             |
| Default value    | set to enable and enter "80"       |

> Once your variables are created you can then add them to the Wordpress manifest YAML. For each variable, copy it to the

Author: LOL.. I was trying to avoid using "Now that... " as I thought I was repeating it too much.

clipboard and add it to the appropriate location.

| YAML line location   | Variable to add                          |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |

> | namespace: wordpress | `'{{.spectro.var.wordpress_namespace}}'` |

Reviewer: Line numbers are displayed in the UI. Why can we not use them? Also, code must be in back ticks.

![Image that shows how to copy and paste variable, then save it in the YAML file](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-variables/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-variables-create-variable.webp)

You can now add the created cluster profile variable it to the cluster profile. Click the **Copy to Clipboard** icon and
close the Profile variable tab.

![Image that shows how to copy and paste variable, then save it in the YAML file](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-variables/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-variables-variable-clipboard.webp)

You must add the variable to the pack manifest YAML file in order to use it. Click on the `wordpress-chart 6.4.3` to
open the editor. Paste the variable to replace the default namespace value.

![Image that shows adding variable and confirm update](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-variables/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-variables-add-variable-and-confirm-update.webp)

Click **Confirm Updates** and finally click **Save Changes**. This will make it part of the cluster profile. You can
verify that the variable is in use by clicking on **{} Variables**.

> As shown in the following image, the namespace variable is displayed as in use in one layer (one pack). Additionally,

Author: On the WordPress pack, they have it as WordPress (and same in their docs). I tried to do a find and replace to get all the relevant ones (some cannot be changed because Palette expects lowercase.

In this tutorial, you will learn how to apply cluster profile variables using
[Palette's UI ](#create-profile-with-variables-ui-workflow) and
[Terraform](#create-profile-with-variables-terraform-workflow) workflows. While the tutorial demonstrates the workflow
using Amazon Web Services (AWS), you can also use the same steps to deploy to Microsoft Azure or Google Cloud Platform
(GCP).

## Prerequisites

- A Palette account.
- Any public cloud credential
  (<VersionedLink text="AWS" url="/clusters/public-cloud/aws/add-aws-accounts/#aws-account" />,
  <VersionedLink text="Azure" url="/clusters/public-cloud/azure/azure-cloud/#add-azure-cloud-account" /> or
  <VersionedLink text="Google Cloud" url="/clusters/public-cloud/gcp/add-gcp-accounts/#create-account" />
  ).
- An SSH key available in the region where you plan to deploy the cluster.
- Ensure that the
  [Palette Community Registry](../../../registries-and-packs/registries/registries.md#default-registries) is available
  in your Palette environment. Refer to the
  [Add OCI Packs Registry](../../../registries-and-packs/registries/oci-registry/add-oci-packs.md) guide for additional

>   guidance.

Reviewer: I suggested it because we also have it in GS - https://docs.spectrocloud.com/getting-started/aws/create-cluster-profile/#prerequisites

- Basic knowledge of containers and Kubernetes manifest file attributes. Refer to the
  [Docker Get Started](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/) guide and the
  [Learn Kubernetes Basics](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/) tutorial to start learning.

## Create Profile with Variables (UI Workflow)

Log into [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/). Navigate to **Profiles** and select **Add Cluster Profile**.
Leave the default value for the version and configure your profile with the following packs.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

> <Tabs groupId="tutorial-packs">

Reviewer 2: It's a bit weird to say that we will cover only AWS and then provide info about the other clouds. I would remove the other clouds here or add coverage of them for real throughout the tutorial.

| Line 205         | `http: '{{.spectro.var.wordpress_port}}'`            |
| Line 502         | `replicaCount: '{{.spectro.var.wordpress_replica}}'` |

Click **Confirm Updates** and click **Save Changes**.

### Deploy Cluster with Cluster Profile Variables

Your cluster profile now has two versions, one with a single variable and one with two variables. You could either
deploy two separate clusters, one for each version, or deploy one cluster using version 1.0.0 and then upgrade it to
version 1.1.0. This tutorial demonstrates the latter option.

In [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/), select your profile and use the **drop-down Menu** is set to version
1.0.0 . Click **Deploy** and go through the wizard to deploy the cluster, leaving all options to their default. The
cluster will take a few minutes to deploy.

Select your cluster once it is deployed and then navigate to the **Workloads** tab. Then, select **Pods** and filter for
**wordpress**. Three pods are displayed similar to the following screenshot: one for MariaDB, one for WordPress database
memory cache and one for the WordPress web server. This is the default deployment behavior for the WordPress pack.

> ![Image that shows default WordPress deployment](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-variables/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-variables-default-wp-deploy.webp)

Author: It hasn't been removed yet. But if we're going to avoid doing it there, wouldn't it make sense to do it with the new "dashboard"? (although attempting to configure that seems a bit of a challenge)
![CleanShot 2025-06-13 at 21 53 35](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8af2b15e-50cd-464c-a13b-20e5a753cb35)

Select the **Workloads** tab. Then, select **Pods**. Refresh the page and then filter for **new-WordPress-ns**
namespace. Three additional WordPress web server pods appear in the new WordPress namespace, `new-wordpress-ns`.

![Image that shows new replicas in new namespace for WordPress](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-variables/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-variables-validate-replica.webp)

### Palette UI Cleanup

Use the following steps to clean up the resources you created for the tutorial.

Navigate to the left main menu and select **Clusters**. Select the cluster you created in this tutorial.

Select **Settings** to expand the menu, and select **Delete Cluster**.

A dialog appears. Input the cluster name to confirm the delete action.

The deletion process takes several minutes to complete.

Once the cluster is deleted, navigate to the left main menu and select **Profiles**.

Select the cluster profile you created in this tutorial. Select the three-dot menu to display the **Delete** button.

Select **Delete** and confirm the selection to remove the cluster profile. Make sure you delete both versions of this
profile.

> ## Create Profile with Variables (Terraform Workflow)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create Clusters with Cluster Profile Variables (Terraform Workflow)
```
you're not creating the profiles in this section, so this title is confusing... I suggest changing the title of the ui workflow as well

WordPress Chart application and `wordpress-variables.yaml` has the following three variables defined in it.

| YAML Line number | Variable to add                                      |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Line 13          | `namespace: '{{.spectro.var.wordpress_namespace}}'`  |
| Line 205         | `http: '{{.spectro.var.wordpress_port}}'`            |
| Line 502         | `replicaCount: '{{.spectro.var.wordpress_replica}}'` |

Note that the syntax of the variable must have spaces at the start and end of the variable, and . at the start of the
variable.

With the variables in place in the YAML file, you can then modify their values found at lines 13-15 in
**terraform.tfvars**.

```hcl
##############################
# Application Configuration
##############################
wordpress_replica   = "REPLACE ME"           # The number of pods to be created for WordPress.
wordpress_namespace = "REPLACE ME"           # The namespace to be created for WordPress.
wordpress_port      = "REPLACE ME"           # The port to be created for HTTP for WordPress.
```

> Additionally, you will need to fill in the cloud-specific configurations. If you are using either Microsoft Azure or
> Google Cloud Platform (GCP), find the relevant provider section. For the tutorial, the steps will use AWS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, you will need to fill in the cloud-specific configurations. If you are using either Azure or
GCP, find the relevant provider section. For this tutorial, the steps will use AWS.
```
no need to define gcp again

}
```

Save the file after you have finished providing your configurations.

### Deploy Clusters with Cluster Profile Variables

Export your **Palette API key** as an environment variable. This step allows the Terraform CLI to authenticate with the
Palette API.

```bash
export SPECTROCLOUD_APIKEY=<Your-Spectro-Cloud-API-key>
```

:::warning

Before deploying the resources, ensure that there are no active clusters named `aws-profile-var-cluster-tf` or cluster
profiles named `aws-profile-variables-tf` in your Palette project.

:::

Issue the `plan` command to preview the resources that Terraform will create.

```shell
terraform plan
```

The output indicates that three new resources will be created: two versions of the AWS cluster profile and the host
cluster. The host cluster will use version `1.0.0` of the cluster profile.

```shell
Plan: 3 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
```

To deploy the resources, use the `apply` command.

```shell
terraform apply -auto-approve
```

The cluster deployment will take a few minutes.

Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com), and click **Clusters** from the left main menu.

> Navigate to the newly created cluster and select the **Profile** tab. The profile in use should be **1.0.0**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to the newly created cluster and select the **Profile** tab. The profile in use should be version **1.0.0**.
```

Navigate to the **Workloads** tab. Then, select **Pods** and filter for **wordpress**. Three pods are displayed similar
to the following screenshot: one for MariaDB, one for WordPress database memory cache and one for the WordPress web
server. This is the default deployment behavior for the WordPress pack.

> ![Image that shows default WordPress deployment](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-variables/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-variables-default-wp-deploy.webp)

Reviewer 2: workloads tab will be deprecated. replace with kubectl commands

> Navigatge to the **Overview** tab and click the **80** port. This will launch the WordPress blog page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to the **Overview** tab and click the **80** port. This will launch the WordPress blog page.
```
add a screenshot of the app pls

Return to your terminal window and modify the `terraform.tfvars` file so that `deploy-aws-var` is set to `true`.
Additionally, modify the Application Configuration values. These values will be used for your cluster profile variables
values.

| Variable Name                | New Value                   |
| ---------------------------- | --------------------------- |

> | **WordPress: Replica Count** | Enter "`3`".                |
> | **WordPress: HTTP Port**     | Enter "`9090`".             |
> | **WordPress: Namespace**     | Enter "`new-wordpress-ns`". |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **WordPress: Replica Count** | `3`                |
| **WordPress: HTTP Port**     | `9090`             |
| **WordPress: Namespace**     | `new-wordpress-ns` |
```
Also, add an extra sentence saying that this will create a new namespace with 3 replicas blabla and then add that same info box talking about the palette reconciliation behavior

```hcl {12-14,20}
# Copyright (c) Spectro Cloud
# SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

#####################
# Palette Settings
#####################
palette-project = "Default" # The name of your project in Palette.

##############################
# Application Configuration
##############################
wordpress_replica   = 3 # The number of pods to be created for Wordpress.
wordpress_namespace = "new-wordpress-ns" # The namespace to be created for Wordpress.
wordpress_port      = 9090 # The port to be created for HTTP for Wordpress.

############################
# AWS Deployment Settings
############################
deploy-aws     = true # Set to true to deploy to AWS.
deploy-aws-var = true # Set to true to deploy AWS with WordPress Pack and cluster profile variables
```

Issue the `plan` command to preview the resources that Terraform will create.

```shell
terraform plan
```

> The output indicates that one resource, the profile, will be modified. The host cluster will use version `1.1.0` of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output indicates that one resource, the cluster, will be modified. The host cluster will use version `1.1.0` of the
```
the cluster is the one being modified in this case. Please review this workflow in terraform. Remember that both cluster profiles are created at the cluster deployment time, and the only thing that changes when we set `deploy-aws-var` to true is the profile being used by the cluster. Now, if you are modifying the second version of the profile after the deployment, then the plan output should be smth like "2 to change". Did you test this? bc i remember the terraform.tf.vars file I reviewed already had the "new values" configured for the Application Configuration

cluster profile.

```shell
Plan: 0 to add, 1 to change, 0 to destroy.
```

To modify the cluster profile, use the `apply` command.

```shell
terraform apply -auto-approve
```

The cluster modification will take a few minutes.

Return to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com), and click **Clusters** from the left main menu.

Navigate to your cluster and select the **Profile** tab. The profile in use should be **1.1.0**.

Select the **Workloads** tab. Then, select **Pods**. Refresh the page and then filter for **new-WordPress-ns**
namespace. Three additional WordPress web server pods appear in the new WordPress namespace, `new-wordpress-ns`.

> ![Image that shows new replicas in new namespace for WordPress](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-variables/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-variables-validate-replica.webp)

Reviewer 2: same comment aboiut the workloads tab

> Navigatge to the **Overview** tab and click the **9090** port. This will launch the WordPress blog page. You may need to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to the **Overview** tab and click the **9090** port. This will launch the WordPress blog page. You may need to
```
add a screenshot of wordpress pls

wait a few minutes for the port to be active.

![Image that shows new port available for WordPress](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-variables/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-variables-validate-overview.webp)

> ### Terraform Cleanup

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Cleanup
```

Use the following steps to clean up the resources you created for the tutorial. Use the `destroy` command to remove all
the resources you created through Terraform.

```shell
terraform destroy --auto-approve
```

A successful execution of `terraform destroy` will output the following.

```shell
Destroy complete! Resources: 3 destroyed.
```

:::info

If a cluster remains in the delete phase for over 15 minutes, it becomes eligible for force delete. To trigger a force
delete action, navigate to the cluster’s details page and click on **Settings**. Click on **Force Delete Cluster** to
delete the cluster. Palette automatically removes clusters stuck in the cluster deletion phase for over 24 hours.

:::

## Wrap-Up

> In this tutorial, you created two cluster profile versions, one with cluster profile variables and one without. You
> deployed a cluster and updated it to apply the cluster profile variables. Cluster profile variables provide the ability
> to leverage cluster profiles as a templating function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you learned how to create cluster profiles that use cluster profile variables. You then deployed and updated a cluster to use the created profile variables. Cluster profile variables provide the ability
to leverage cluster profiles as a templating function.
```
changed this a bit as this is not 100% true. the ui workflow already had profile variables in the first version of the cluster profile

We encourage you to check out the following reference resources to learn more about Palette.

- [Cluster Profiles](../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/cluster-profiles.md)

- [Palette Clusters](../../../clusters/clusters.md)

- [Backup and Restore](../../../clusters/cluster-management/backup-restore/backup-restore.md)

- [Deploy a Custom Pack](../../../tutorials/profiles/deploy-pack.md)

> - [Hello Universe GitHub repository](https://github.com/spectrocloud/hello-universe)
> 
> - [Spectro Cloud Terraform Documentation on Cluster Profiles](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/spectrocloud/spectrocloud/latest/docs/resources/cluster_profile)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
we are not using hello uni, we already linked to cluster profiles

  installed if you choose to follow along using the tutorial container.
- Basic knowledge of containers and Kubernetes manifest file attributes. Refer to the
  [Docker Get Started](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/) guide and the
  [Learn Kubernetes Basics](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/) tutorial to start learning.
- Kubectl installed locally. Use the Kubernetes [Install Tools](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) for additional
  guidance.

## Cluster Profile Variables (UI Workflow)

In this part of the tutorial, you will use [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/) to create your cluster and
cluster profile. The cluster profile will have two versions as part of it. The **1.0.0** version will be a clean,
default version while the **1.1.0** version will have the variables added to it.

### Create Cluster Profile

Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/), select **Profiles** from the left main menu, and click **Add
Cluster Profile**.

Assign the cluster profile a name and leave the default value for the version. Click **Next** to continue.

> In the **Profile Layers** section, configure your profile with the following packs. Click **Next layer** to continue to
> the next layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Profile Layers** section, configure your profile with the following packs.
```

memory cache and one for the WordPress web server. The row highlighted in the output is an example of the Wordpress web
server.

```shell {2}
NAME                                                   READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE   IP              NODE                         NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
wordpress-chart-wordpress-dd7d944cb-kw5dm              1/1     Running   0          23m   192.168.71.70   ip-10-0-1-169.ec2.internal   <none>           <none>
wordpress-chart-wordpress-mariadb-0                    1/1     Running   0          23m   192.168.71.69   ip-10-0-1-169.ec2.internal   <none>           <none>
wordpress-chart-wordpress-memcached-56cffcf458-fq59l   1/1     Running   0          23m   192.168.71.68   ip-10-0-1-169.ec2.internal   <none>           <none>
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Palette UI" value="Palette UI Workloads">
Select your cluster once it is deployed and then navigate to the **Workloads** tab. Then, select **Pods** and filter for
**wordpress**. Three pods are displayed similar to the following screenshot: one for MariaDB, one for WordPress database

> memory cache and one for the WordPress web server. This is the default deployment behavior for the WordPress pack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
memory cache, and one for the WordPress web server. This is the default deployment behavior for the WordPress pack.
```

A dialog appears. Input the cluster name to confirm the delete action.

The deletion process takes several minutes to complete.

Once the cluster is deleted, select **Profiles** from the left main menu.

Select the cluster profile you created in this tutorial. Select the three-dot menu to display the **Delete** button.

Select **Delete** and confirm the selection to remove the cluster profile. Make sure you delete both versions of this
profile.

## Cluster Profile Variables (Terraform Workflow)

When you create cluster profiles in Terraform, the cluster profile variables can be defined in the profile versions that
you want to apply the variables against.

<PartialsComponent category="getting-started" name="setup-local-environment" />

Navigate to the folder that contains the tutorial code. Check out the
[Resource Review](../../../../getting-started/aws/deploy-manage-k8s-cluster-tf/#resources-review) to get more
information about the files that make up the tutorial code.

```shell
cd terraform/cluster-profile-variables-tf
```

Open the **cluster_profiles.tf** file. In the **AWS Cluster Profile v1.0.0**, there are no variables defined and the

> WordPress pack points to `wordpress-default.yaml`. This file is the default YAML configuration file for the WordPress

Author: Addressed this as part of a table that lists files, including those in **manifests** folder.
